A system that keeps Saavn App (music streaming app) users notified about new releases based on their music preferences. It is quintessential to push a song notification only to its interested and relevant audience. To accommodate this feature in the platform, users have been segregated into different cohorts based on some common characteristics so that push the notification about any new song will be sent to an appropriate user cohort.

User Cohorts are a group of users who share common characteristics. Users of the same gender, age group and locality are typical examples of user cohorts. User cohorts also help to segment the user base into meaningful clusters for analytics, marketing campaigns, targeting ads and so on. Creating a cohort based on features such as gender is pretty trivial. But, a majority of Saavn's users do not have a personal account on the platform. Under such circumstances, personalised information such as age, gender, geographical location etc. is unavailable to the developers trying to build a machine learning solution. Clickstream data based on the activity of users on the platform has been provided and can be used to create user cohorts. This data has a total of four attributes - “User ID”, “Song ID”, “Date” and “Timestamp.” Another file called "Metadata" has been provided which maps each “Song ID” to an “Artist ID.” Both these datsets are present in AWS S3.

Using these datasets, you need to train a model that will build appropriate user cohorts. Once the clusters have been developed, your aim should be to push the most suitable notification matching the users’ preferences in that particular cluster. The groups must be built with the idea to maximise the clickthrough rate for a notification. Click through rate is a measure that indicates the ratio of the number of users who clicked on the pushed notification to the total number of users to whom that notification was pushed. e.g. suppose “Notification A” is pushed to “Cluster 1” that contains 100 users. If out of all these users, a total of 10 users click on this notification, then the clickthrough rate will be 10/100=10%. You should try to maximise the clickthrough rate for each cluster.
